The Apothecary Diaries
This story is a work of fiction. The names of all of the characters, organizations, and so on
are imaginary. It also bears no connection to any specific real-life events.
That girl bumped into the eunuch,
and he dropped the ice
he was carrying for a concubine.
I feel sorry for her.
Shouldn't you feel sorry for the eunuch
who was carrying the ice?
Let's hope he gets away with just a caning.
I-I'm sorry—
Please excuse us, we weren't paying attention!
You think "sorry" will cut it?!
I can't wash this and pretend nothing happened!
We don't have any replacements!
Dammit... What do I do?!
Ice is precious this time of year.
You could buy a person with it.
Which concubine was this ice for?
Concubine Loulan! She wanted some icy
treats for cooling her off in the afternoon!
Out of all of them, it's one
I have no connections with.
What do we do? We can't pay for it.
It would be terrible to anger
a high-ranking concubine.
If we could at least
find something to replace it...
Can we have this ice?
Do whatever you want!
In that case, I'll use this
to make something else.
Could you pass that along
to Concubine Loulan?
Try it, if you can. You have less than an hour!
Understood.
I might have exactly enough time.
But I don't even know if
the other ingredients are available.
I have to use what I can to—
W-Why is he here?
There's no time to dwell on that!
Episode 39: Ice
What do I do, Maomao?!
Oh, poor girl.
A concubine gave her a hair stick,
so she was happily
admiring it while walking, and...
I wonder if that concubine likes me!
She wants me to give her
another massage sometime!
Good for you.
After the last time, Xiaolan continued
to work on building connections.
She was just telling me how she scored
a direct request from a low-ranked concubine.
I heard she was sold off by her parents,
but I've never seen her look glum, even once.
She must have been so happy.
Getting yelled at like that must have
made her so scared, she couldn't move.
Is there something you need?
May I borrow a kitchen and some ingredients?
How brazen. And what do I get in return?
Don't toy with me, I don't have time!
I have nothing to give you in return.
But I must ask regardless!
I couldn't be more out of line,
but this isn't the time to worry about it.
You didn't cause that situation, did you?
You're right.
She was originally just someone
who was a good source of gossip.
Even for that, I gave her snacks in exchange,
so we owe each other nothing.
I'm not obligated to help her.
But...
I wouldn't sleep well if I didn't help.
I see. You won't sleep well, is that it?
Yes. It would affect my work for the next day.
We certainly can't have that.
Fine, but there's one condition.
When someone is talking to you,
let them finish and pay attention.
That's all?
You can't even do that much.
Never mind then, I'll think of
something else. What should it be?
I have a bad feeling about this!
Should I rely on Lady Gyokuyou instead?
No, I can't ask for her help on something
related to Concubine Loulan.
Thank you.
Don't you wear a hair stick?
The other Jade Pavilion
ladies-in-waiting are more fashionable.
You say that, but I don't have any accessories.
I gave you one at the garden party, remember?
Don't tell me you sold it off.
I haven't.
Not yet, anyway.
Wear that, then.
Is that all?
Is there a problem?
When you wear it, I'll tell you.
A kitchen, yes? I'll have someone prepare it.
I brought it!
Please place it there.
Got it.
Maomao, is this...
Sugar and fruits and... Cow milk?
I'm glad they had fresh milk,
it goes bad pretty fast.
Can you really make something
like an ice treat out of these?
I think so.
I've only watched it being made once, though.
I'm counting on you, really!
I'll call you when it's done.
Stir this up.
R-Right!
What are you doing?!
Crushing the ice.
Wow, so small...
Don't worry.
Good.
Salt?
Xiaolan, put your bowl in here.
Yes!
What? No way.
It's starting to harden!
Xiaolan, cut up the fruit. Tiny pieces, okay?
Y-Yeah!
Add fruits, mix some more,
and place it in the bowl...
Is it finished?!
Hey, is this...
Yep, it's an ice treat.
It should do for now.
If I had more time, I could have added
eggs or scented it with herbs, too.
Let's get this to her right away.
Yeah, but...
Shouldn't we taste it first?
Back to her usual self.
There are some leftovers.
Mmm, delicious!
What? Hey, is it done?!
Please deliver this.
Are you sure it's good enough for—
Do you see any issues with it?
To Concubine Loulan, quickly, please.
G-Got it!
I'm so glad! Thanks, Maomao!
I don't know. I hope Concubine Loulan likes it.
Don't be mean!
Boo! Bonk, bonk, bonk...
Master Jinshi told me
about her likes and dislikes.
She'll take a taste, at least, for sure.
Come on! Anyway, let's eat
the rest before it melts.
Yeah, let's eat it!
Shisui!
What are you doing here?
I heard the commotion,
so I ditched work and came over.
You're so bad!
This is delicious!
Come on, don't just take the best part.
Mine!
Come on! Don't take it all!
Mine, all mine!
I'm gonna need more of this.
Come on!
Oh! You caught me!
Or maybe not!
Maybe I have enough for one more batch.
Wait up!
Okay, open up!
Mmm, so delicious!
Your turn next, Shisui. Open up!
Oh, it's moving.
Lingli, do you want to touch?
She's going to give birth soon.
Everything seems good, for now.
It's strange.
Unlike with Lingli,
this one only kicks downwards.
Down?
I guess quirks come out this early.
May I touch, just a little?
Well, sure.
Excuse me.
How did Princess Lingli's delivery go?
It was really easy, especially
considering it was her first time.
Maybe it helped that her body was rather small.
Who assisted with the delivery?
I did.
I don't trust the doctors here,
and the court lady we hired
for the delivery became ill.
I did a lot of studying
beforehand, so it worked out.
So, will you be requesting
that court lady again?
No, I don't want her to fall ill
at the worst time again.
I heard Concubine Lihua also had
someone else come in when giving birth.
A midwife who temporarily
entered the rear palace, originally.
I see...
Are they bringing someone
from outside the rear palace again?
Even if Lady Hongniang assisted last time,
she's not a professional in the field.
If you have a concern, please let it out.
I can't say for certain,
but this could be a breech delivery.
A breech delivery?
Yes, the kicking downwards suggests as much.
If Princess Lingli was kicking upwards,
her head must have been facing down.
A baby delivery goes most smoothly when
the head, the largest part, comes out first.
In contrast, when the feet,
which are smallest, come out first,
it drastically increases the risks
associated with the birth.
Are you sure it's a breech delivery?
It's just a possibility.
If I can examine a bit more thoroughly,
I might know more.
Can you?
I can't say for sure. My dad only
taught me about medicine.
Everything else is just
things I've observed.
Do it, please.
By they way, by "examine," I mean...
Oh, is that so?
That's nothing compared to delivering her.
Mothers are strong, I guess.
Understood.
How was it?
This is a hard thing to say, but...
It seems quite likely.
Sometimes they just change direction
on their own before birth,
but given how little time there is left...
What should we do?
In the pleasure district, I heard
moxibustion and good exercise is helpful.
I can help with moxibustion.
Please.
I'll ask around outside the rear palace
for anything else that might help.
Yes.
What happens if it ends up
being a breech delivery?
We might need to cut into your belly.
I see.
Lady Gyokuyou...
But if we do that,
Lady Gyokuyou's life would be at risk.
It's risky enough even with a proper midwife.
If only the quack was a proper doctor...
But who else can replace him?
To enter the rear palace,
a doctor has to be castrated.
But where can we find a good
doctor who's also a eunuch—
There is. The perfect candidate.
But...
Maomao?
I do know of someone.
You do?
Someone with outstanding skills as a doctor,
and also has experience
delivering babies by incision.
Oh.
Really? Ah...
Could it be...
Master Jinshi's lady-in-waiting...
No. He's a doctor.
What in the world did Lady Suiren do?
Who is this person?
He was once exiled from the rear palace.
A criminal.
Unacceptable!
Lady Gyokuyou and
the baby's lives are at stake.
It needs to be someone trustworthy!
He is trustworthy!
He's the best doctor in this nation.
Those are some big words, rare from you.
But he's still a criminal, right?
There's just no way.
But—
Wait, both of you.
Hongniang, don't stop her
before she's finished.
Maomao, please calm down and explain.
What crime did he commit?
This person is a eunuch,
and was a doctor in the rear palace.
In the past, he helped deliver
the emperor, the current crown prince,
and Concubine Ah-Duo's baby.
As for the reason for his exile, all I know
is that it's related to Concubine Ah-Duo.
It's not like he actually told me,
or that I know all the facts for sure.
...Luomen, expelled...
There are some records,
but most of it is conjecture.
What is his relation to you, Maomao?
He is my adopted father, and the person
who taught me the ways of the apothecary.
I understand.
Let's ask Master Jinshi
if we can bring that person in.
Lady Gyokuyou!
Hongniang, I want to consult someone
who's a real professional.
It would be best if it's someone we can trust.
Besides, I just can't believe
he's a bad person.
Look at how this stray cat respects him.
Stray cat...?
But he's a criminal!
Hongniang,
I'm sure you've also heard the stories
about the rear palace back then.
So many lives were tossed around
by the reign of the great empress.
We can't judge "crimes"
from back then at face value.
Understood.
In that case, I have a letter to write.
That's what I call dignity.
I guess that's what a concubine
becoming a mother is like.
Two days after speaking to Lady Gyokuyou...
Thank you.
We've been eagerly awaiting
your arrival, Master Luomen.
Well, well. Who would've thought
I'd come back here?
A man, who looked more like an elderly
woman, arrived at the rear palace.
I am Luomen.
I will be temporarily serving in
the rear palace's medical office.
I've heard from Maomao.
Thank you for your help.
Yes.
Temporarily? Well, that makes sense, I guess.
I was a bit worried
that the quack would get fired.
Good to know I don't have to worry about that.
Well then, please excuse me.
Please.
Yes.
Hey! That's your father, right?
Well, sort of.
Technically, he's my great uncle.
He's not at all what we imagined.
He seems gentle and calm.
Yes, like a normal person.
It's like, did he really raise Maomao?
My thoughts exactly.
All of you...!
Oh, I mean...
What were you imagining,?
Well... you know...
He seems like he has common sense.
Exactly.
I don't get it.
Next Time
Next time:
"Festering Resentment."
Episode 40: Festering Resentment